a guy I was speaking to at integration
Circle he mentioned he had a mystical
experience where he encountered none
other than Ganesh the elephant God of
Hinduism after your Journeys how would
you reflect on sort of the meaning of
encountering say a particular form of a
deity or something like that when we
experience
realities that are Beyond us or
Consciousness dimensions of
Consciousness that are beyond our own
and when we're tapping into those
qualities that are like infinite
compassion and infinite intelligence uh
and infinite creativity these are
qualities that we tend to associate
historically with various deities and
it's not surprising that our mind would
put together the qualities of the
phenomenology of the experience with the
qualities of the deities which we may or
may may have had experience exposure to
intellectually and sometimes
we counter deities that we haven't
they're not part of our own personal
lineage and may not have been part of
our
um
they may not have been something even
that we knew about it comes completely
out of left field and yet it Bears the
form of a culture's
form of this deity like Ganesh or Jesus
or Mary or the prophet Muhammad or
something like that
so my understanding of it is that when
you are working or when you are engaging
entities are
forms that have this quality of an
entity that is identifiable in our
historical Traditions my sense is that
we are engaging
a collective thought form or a spiritual
being that is wearing the clothes of a
collective thought form and by a
collective thought form I mean
if you have millions and millions of
devotees
that meditate and pray and offer
devotions to a particular deity form
which has been identified in their
scripture which is painted in their
culture statuary is all of this form if
you have millions and millions and
millions of being over thousands of
years in devotional attachment to these
forms or devotional
focus on these forms I think it creates
a certain structure in the collective
psyche a collective thought form and I
don't minimize those forms I think
they're extraordinarily powerful
including secular thought Farms like
greed power anger those you know very
powerful in our system
so when we encounter the deity in a or a
deity in a in a particular form
we are either encountering a spiritual
principle which is beyond form which is
wearing the form
of this Collective garment or we're
experiencing the collective garments
straight out in itself either way the
collective psyche is implicated the
collective psyche is part of our
experience which is all perfectly normal
and perfectly well and good I think
um
at the same time I would hold out that
it is possible to go beyond
all Collective thought forms and to go
beyond
human history in one's experience and
when one does those forms tend to fade
away I know there's a lot of discussion
of entities because particularly DMT and
DMT derivatives often expose people to
entities and I'm not suggesting that
those entities aren't real or the
entities don't exist but to me
personally
uh and again limitations but personally
those entities reflect
different levels of reality that as you
go deeper those levels that that kind of
granular quality of lots of individual
beings tends to yield to levels of
reality which are less granular
fewer individual beings kind of
constituting the population of those
levels of reality and opening up into
vast Tracks Of Consciousness which are
less individual less entity-like
it at least it is in my experience
yeah that that definitely seems to
resonate um in terms of it being sort of
a matter of levels
um and uh after seeing sort of where you
go in those levels it makes a lot more
sense that at some point even though
it's dissolve and becomes something
different